## NOTIFICATION CONFIGURATION VARIABLES

The README on Dockerhub has a hard limit of 25,000 characters, and I'd hit this limit multiple times. I'd changed the wording of this README.md file time and time again to keep it under that limit, but I've finally conceeded and just moved this section to it's own file. Please see NOTIFICATIONS.md for further details. It is available here: https://github.com/boredazfcuk/docker-icloudpd/blob/master/NOTIFICATIONS.md

**notification_type**: This specifies the method that is used to send notifications. These are the options available **Prowl**, **Pushover**, **Telegram**, **Webhook**, **openhab**, **Dingtalk**, **Discord**, **IYUU**, **WeCom**, **Gotify** and **Bark**. When the two factor authentication cookie is within 7 days (default) of expiry, a notification will be sent upon synchronisation. No more than a single notification will be sent within a 24 hour period unless the container is restarted. This does not include the notification that is sent each time the container is started.

**notification_title**: This allows you to change the title which is sent on the notifications. This variable will default to **boredazfcuk/iCloudPD**.

**prowl_api_key**: Mandatory if notification_type set to 'Prowl'. This is the API key for your account as generated by the Prowl website.

**pushover_user**: Mandatory if notification_type set to 'Pushover'. This is the Pushover user key associated with your account.

**pushover_token**: Mandatory if notification_type set to 'Pushover'. This is the application API token. You will need to create an application by logging into your Pushover account and creating an application.

**pushover_sound**: Mandatory if notification_type set to 'Pushover' this variable can be set to customise the sound of the notification. Values for this variable can be found here: https://pushover.net/api#sounds

**telegram_token**: Mandatory if notification_type set to 'Telegram'. This is the token that was assigned to your account by The Botfather.

**telegram_chat_id**: Mandatory if notification_type set to 'Telegram'. This is the chat_id for your Telegram bot. If the bot is a standard user that messages you, the chat ID will be a positive integer number. If the bot is a member of a group, and sends messages to the group, the chat ID will be prefixed with a hyphen '-' character.

**telegram_server**: Optional if notification_type set to 'Telegram'. If Telegram is blocked in your country and you need to use a proxy server to access it, put the fully qualified domain name of the server here.

**webhook_server**: Mandatory if notification_type set to 'Webhook' or 'openhab' then this is the name of the server to connect to when sending webhook notifications.

**webhook_port**: Mandatory if notification_type set to 'Webhook' or 'openhab' then this is the port number to use when connecting to the webhook server. If this is not set, it will default to 8123.

**webhook_path**: Mandatory if notification_type set to 'Webhook' or 'openhab' then this is the path to use when connectiong to the webhook server. The path must start and end with a forward slash character. If this is not set, it will default to **/api/webhook/**. Openhab uses **"/rest/items/<itemname>/"**.

**webhook_id**: Mandatory if notification_type set to 'Webhook' or 'openhab' then this is the Webhook ID to use. Openhab uses "state".

**webhook_https**: If this is set to 'True' then the Webhook or openhab notification URL will use HTTPS, otherwise it will default to HTTP.

**webhook_body**: Adapt to different services. Homeassistant uses "data" in the body of the webhook request, Discord uses "content", IFTTT uses "value1", etc.. Defaults to "data".

**dingtalk_token**: Mandatory if notification_type set to 'Dingtalk' then this is the access token generated by the Dingtalk application. In the Dingtalk application, go to 'Security Settings', select 'Custom Keywords' and set to to the same value as **notification_title**.

**discord_id**: This is the first half of the URL generated by Discord's webhook integration.  It will be all numbers.  Do not include any /

**discord_token**: This is the second half of the URL generated by Discords webhook integration.  Do no include any /

**iyuu_token**: Mandatory if notification_type set to 'IYUU'. This is the access token required to send messages.


**wecom_id**: Mandatory if notification_type set to 'WeCom'.企业微信通知，企业微信通知，企业ID / This is the CORPID associated with your account。企业微信通知配置也可参见[此项目链接](https://github.com/Alano-i/wecom-notification/tree/main/iCloudPD)

**wecom_secret**: Mandatory if notification_type set to 'WeCom'.企业微信通知，企业应用的Secret / This is the CORPSECRET associated with your account

**agentid**: Mandatory if notification_type set to 'WeCom'.企业微信通知，企业应用的id / Enterprise application id

**touser**: Mandatory if notification_type set to 'WeCom'.企业微信通知，接收通知的对象 / who receives notifications

**content_source_url**: Mandatory if notification_type set to 'WeCom'.企业微信通知，阅读原文跳转链接 / Click on the page link after "reading the original text"

**name**: Mandatory if notification_type set to 'WeCom'.企业微信通知，当前 Apple ID 所有人 / Current Apple ID owner

**wecom_proxy**: Optional. 企业微信通知，企业微信的代理,非必填,用来绕过企业微信的IP白名单 / Optional,Used to bypass the ip whitelist of WeCom

**media_id_startup**: Mandatory if notification_type set to 'WeCom'.企业微信通知，启动成功通知封面 / Image for Startup success

**media_id_download**: Mandatory if notification_type set to 'WeCom'.企业微信通知，下载通知封面 / Image for downloaded files

**media_id_delete**: Mandatory if notification_type set to 'WeCom'.企业微信通知，删除文件通知封面 / Image for deleted files

**media_id_expiration**: Mandatory if notification_type set to 'WeCom'.企业微信通知，cookie即将过期通知封面 / Image for cookie expiration

**media_id_warning**: Mandatory if notification_type set to 'WeCom'.企业微信通知，同步失败、cookiey已过期通知封面 / Image for cookie expired or failure

**gotify_app_token**: Mandatory if notification_type set to 'Gotify'. This is the app_token associated with your account.

**gotify_server_url**: Mandatory if notification_type set to 'Gotify'. This is the server name of your Gotify server e.g. server.domain.tld

**bark_device_key**: Mandatory if notification_type set to 'Bark'. This is the device key associated with your device

**bark_server**: Mandatory if notification_type set to 'Bark'. This is the name of your Bark server, including the port, if required. e.g. server.domain.com or server.domain.com:8080
