# docker-icloudpd
An Alpine Linux Docker container for ndbroadbent's iCloud Photos Downloader

## MANDATORY ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

apple_id: This is the Apple ID for the account you want to download files for

apple_password: This is the password for the Apple ID account named above. This is needed to generate an authentication token

## DEFAULT ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

user: This is name of the user account that you wish to create within the container. This can be anything you choose, but ideally you would set this to match the name of the user on the host system for which you want to download files for. This user will be set as the owner of all downloaded files. If this variable is not set, it will default to 'user'

user_id: This is the User ID number of the above user account. This can be any number that isn't already in use. Ideally, you should set this to be the same ID number as the user's ID on the host system. This will avoid permissions issues if syncing to your host's home directory. If this variable is not set, it will default to '1000'

group: This is name of the group account that you wish to create within the container. This can be anything you choose, but ideally you would set this to match the name of the user's primary group on the host system. This This group will be set as the group for all downloaded files. If this variable is not set, it will default to 'group'

group_id: This is the Group ID number of the above group. This can be any number that isn't already in use. Ideally, you should set this to be the same Group ID number as the user's primary group on the host system. If this variable is not set, it will default to '1000'

TZ: This is the local timezone and is required to calculate timestamps. If this variable is not set, it will default to Coordinated Universal Time 'UTC'

synchronisation_interval: This is the number of seconds between syncronisations. Common intervals would be: 3hrs - 10800, 4hrs - 14400, 6hrs - 21600 & 12hrs - 43200. If variable is not set it will default to every 12hrs (43200 seconds)

notification_days: This is number of days until cookie expiration for which to generate notifications. This will default to 7 days if not specified so you will receive a single notification in the 7 days running up to cookie expiration

authentication_type: This is the type of authentication that is enabled on your iCloud account. Valid values are '2FA' if you have two factor authentication enabled or 'Web' if you do not. If 'Web' is specified, then cookie generation is not required. If this variable is not set, it will default to '2FA'

directory_permissions: This specifies the permissions to set on the directories in your download destination. If this variable is not set, it will default to 750

file_permissions: This specifies the permissions to set on the files in your download destination. If this variable is not set, it will default to 640

folder_structure: This specifies the folder structure to use in your download destination directory. If this variable is not set, it will set {:%Y/%m/%d} as the default

## OPTIONAL ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

interactive_only: Some hosts only run containers interactively (looking at you Synology) and this means the script gets stuck attempting to create a 2FA cookie every time. Setting interactive_only will force the script to bypass the cookie generation function and sync files instead.

command_line_options: This is for additional command line options you want to pass to the icloudpd application. The list of options for icloudpd can be found [HERE](https://github.com/ndbroadbent/icloud_photos_downloader#usage)

~~set_datetime_from_exif:~~ Removed. This only applies to photos that are not taken with the internal cameras (saved to photostream), these are few and far between and most of the time, having accurate file stamps is unimportant. Removed this now as it applies to a very small amount of files

notification_type: This specifies the method that is used to send notifications. Currently, there are three options available 'Prowl', 'Pushbullet' and 'Telegram'. When the two factor authentication cookie is within 7 days (default) of expiry, a notification will be sent upon syncronisation. No more than a single notification will be sent within a 24 hour period unless the container is restarted. This does not include the notification that is sent each time the container is started

prowl_api_key: If the notification_type is set to 'Prowl' this is mandatory. This is the API key for your account as generated by the Prowl website

pushbullet_api_key: If the notification_type is set to 'Pushbullet' this is mandatory. This is the API key for your account as generated by the Pushbullet website

telegram_token: If the notification_type is set to 'Telegram' this is mandatory. This is the token that was assigned to your account by The Botfather

telegram_chat_id: If the notification_type is set to 'Telegram' then this is the chat_id for your Telegram bot

convert_heic_to_jpeg: This tells the container that it should convert any HEIC files it downloads to JPEG

delete_heic_jpegs: This tells the container that when a HEIC file is removed, it should remove the associated JPEG file, if one exists


## VOLUME CONFIGURATION

It also requires a named volume mapped to /config. This is where is stores the authentication cookie. Without it, it will lose the cookie information each time the container is recreated.
It will download the photos to the "/home/${user}/iCloud" photos directory. You need to create a bind mount into the container at this point

I also have a failsafe built in. The launch script will look for a file called .mounted in the "/home/${user}/iCloud" folder. If this file is not present, it will not sync with iCloud. This is so that if the underlying disk/volume/whatever gets unmounted, sync will not occur. This prevents the script from filling up the root volume if the underlying volume isn't mounted for whatever reason. This file **MUST** be created manually and sync will not start without it

## CREATING A CONTAINER

To create a container, run the following command from a shell on the host, filling in the details as per your requirements:

```
docker create \
   --name <Contrainer Name> \
   --hostname <Hostname of container> \
   --network <Name of Docker network to connect to> \
   --restart=always \
   --env user=<User Name> \
   --env user_id=<User ID> \
   --env group=<Group Name> \
   --env group_id=<Group ID> \
   --env apple_id="<Apple ID e-mail address>" \
   --env apple_password="Apple ID password" \
   --env authentication_type=<2FA or Web> \
   --env command_line_options="<Any additional commands you wish to pass to icloudpd>" \
   --env synchronisation_interval=<Include this if you wish to override the default interval of 24hrs> \
   --env notification_type=<Choice of Prowl or Pushbullet> \
   --env notification_days=<Number of days for which to send cookie expiry notifications> \
   --env TZ=<The local time zone> \
   --volume <Named volume which is mapped to /config> \
   --volume <Bind mount to the destination folder on the host> \
   boredazfcuk/icloudpd
   ```
   
   This is an example of the command I run to create a container on my own machine:
   
   ```
   docker create \
   --name iCloudPD-boredazfcuk \
   --hostname icloudpd_boredazfcuk \
   --network containers \
   --restart=always \
   --env user=boredazfcuk \
   --env user_id=1000 \
   --env group=admins \
   --env group_id=1010 \
   --env apple_id=thisisnotmy@email.com \
   --env apple_password="neitheristhismypassword" \
   --env authentication_type=2FA \
   --env notification_type=Prowl \
   --env notification_days=14 \
   --env command_line_options="--folder-structure={:%Y} --recent 50 --auto-delete" \
   --env synchronisation_interval=21600 \
   --env TZ=Europe/London \
   --volume icloudpd_boredazfcuk_config:/config \
   --volume /home/boredazfcuk/iCloud:/home/boredazfcuk/iCloud \
   boredazfcuk/icloudpd
   ```
   
## TWO FACTOR AUTHENTICATION

If your Apple ID account has two factor authentication enabled and you immediately launch the container after creating it, you will see that the container waits for a two factor authentication cookie to be created. Without this cookie, syncronisation cannot be started.

To generate a two factor authentication cookie the container must be run interactively. This can be done by running a second container momentarily from a shell prompt on the host. The second container will log in to your Apple ID account and your iDevice should then ask you if you want to allow or deny the login. When you allow the login, you will be sent a 6-digit approval code. Enter the approval code into the shell prompt by selecting the corresponding option (0 or 1) and then entering the approval code. This will then place a two factor authentication cookie into the /config folder of the container. This cookie will expire after three months. After it has expired, you will need to re-initialise the container again.
   
To create a two factor authentication enabled cookie, run the container in an interactive session (with: docker run -it --rm) and point it to the same named /config volume like this:
   ```
   docker run -it --rm \
   --network <Same as the previously created contrainer> \
   --env user=<Same as the previously created contrainer> \
   --env user_id=<Same as the previously created contrainer> \
   --env group=<Same as the previously created contrainer> \
   --env group_id=<Same as the previously created contrainer> \
   --env apple_id="<Same as the previously created contrainer>" \
   --env apple_password="<Same as the previously created contrainer>" \
   --volume <Same named volume as the previously created contrainer> \
   boredazfcuk/icloudpd
   ```
   
This is an example of the command I run to create the authentication token on my own machine:
```
docker run -it --rm \
   --network containers \
   --env user=boredazfcuk \
   --env user_id=1000 \
   --env group=admins \
   --env group_id=1010 \
   --env apple_id="thisisnotmy@email.com" \
   --env apple_password="neitheristhismypassword" \
   --volume icloudpd_boredazfcuk_config:/config \
   boredazfcuk/icloudpd
```

After this, my iCloudPD-boredazfcuk container launchs and the startup script loops after the set interval time.
   
Dockerfile has a health check which will change the status of the container to 'unhealthy' if the cookie is due to expire within a set number of days (notification_days) and also if the download fails. 
   
# TO DO

~~Configure SMTP notifications~~
Scrapping this as it seems a lot of work for little value, due to having three push notification options instead.

BTC: 1E8kUsm3qouXdVYvLMjLbw7rXNmN2jZesL
